From dragon Thu Jul 18 17:13:15 1985
Subject: microworld
(no, not a serious name suggestion)

An idea, though...  In addition to avatars (which might have different modes
of seeing/moving/etc), one might have tools in the other world, such as
binoculars (or a telescope, lacking 3-D capability).  Perhaps the normal view
would be as in Rescue, Eidolon or Koronis Rift, about 90 degrees and not very
far away.  A telescopic view would present about the same amount of detail,
but distribute it differently so that one could see a long distance in a very
narrow cone (say 10 degrees).

Objects and terrain could have several additional non-visual dimensions of
information, such as temperature, reflectivity and metallic content.  Thus,
different modes of "seeing" might give entirely different views from the same
terrain.  Electromagnetic scanners, such as radar, would show a metallic
object as being substantially brighter than a non-metallic one, for instance.
Infrared would show lakes as dark spots, and volcanoes, hot springs or
subterranean nuclear power stations as brighter highlights.

We should also be careful not to rule out non-human modes of vision (and other
sensory apparatus).  Many non-human or semi-human races in D&D have
infravision, for example, and would see in the infrared spectrum as well
underground as a normal human might above ground.

In True Names, one of the characters takes off (from the high mountain
[satellite] meeting place) as an eagle.  This might be represented on a home
computer as a flight simulator with a very narrow field of view, and different
(but not unrealistic) flight dynamics.  The narrow field graphics might
provide a certain amount of disorientation, until one "got used to the form",
so to speak.

Just an idea...
							Charlie

